Effects on Pain, Anxiety and satisfaction by visual distraction for adults undergoing colonoscopy – A systematic review and meta-analysis


EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

Background:
Colonoscopy is one of the best procedures currently available for colorectal cancer screening. However, the participation of colonoscopy of the high-risk groups remains low in Hong Kong. One reason is that participants often feel uncomfortable during the procedure. More means to make colonoscopy a pleasant experience should be sought. Visual distraction has the potential to reduce pain for adults undergoing colonoscopy, but there is currently no evidence by systematic review and meta-analysis to confirm its effectiveness. This study will fill up this research gap.

Methods: 
The PubMed, Embase and Wiley Online Library and major Chinese electronic databases were searched using keywords include ‘visual distraction’ in combination with ‘colonoscopy’ and along with various kinds of outcomes with their synonyms included. Meta-analysis is performed for visual distraction on pain, anxiety and satisfaction level.


Results: 
6 studies were found and 5 studies were used for the meta-analysis. It shows that visual distraction can significantly reduce pain (Mean Difference (MD) -1.12, 95% CI -1.53 to -0.72, p < 0.0001), and can significantly increase patients’ satisfaction (MD +1.54, 95% CI +0.48 to +2.60, p = 0.004) with reference to a 1-10 Likert scale. For anxiety, and a statistically significant reduction is found using standardized mean difference (SMD) as the measurement outcome. (SMD -0.27, 95% CI -0.54 to -0.01, p = 0.046). 
By subgroup analysis, there was also no significant difference in outcomes between studies with or without audio intervention (p = 0.135), between studies with or without medication administered (p = 0.418) and between studies of different types of visual distraction (p = 0.10).

Conclusion: 
While the results show visual distraction during colonoscopy procedures has effects for reducing pain and anxiety and improving satisfaction among patients, more studies should be done for further confirmation.

Keywords: visual distraction, colonoscopy, pain, anxiety, satisfaction, systematic review, meta-analysis


Word counts for Executive Summary: 300
Word counts for Full Report: 5,264
